---
title: Block IP address with Mikrotik, Home Assistant and Android
author: klmn
date: 2024-11-28 16:32
categories: [Network, Tutorial]
tags: [block,ip,address,mikrotik,cli,homeassistant,android]
---

# Introduction
My children often refuse to stop playing on the computer - for all sorts of reasons: they are playing a game, they need to finish watching a YouTube video, and so on. Sometimes the only way to get them to turn off the computer is to turn off the internet to the PC. Of course, you could turn off the whole router or unplug the network cable from the switch - but that's boring for us, isn't it ? :)

# Environment
## Mikrotik
### Disable connection script
IP address to be blocked: 10.10.10.123
Login to your Mikrotik and create the script:

```
add name=BlockKidName1 source={
    :local srcIP "10.10.10.123";
    /ip firewall filter add chain=forward src-address=$srcIP action=drop;
    :log info "New rule to block traffic to $srcIP has been added";
    /ip firewall connection remove [find where src-address~$srcIP];
    :log info "All active session for $srcIP" address have been removed;
}
```

How does it work ?
* `add name=BlockKidName1 source={` - name of the script
* `:local srcIP "10.10.10.123";` - define IP address
* `/ip firewall filter add chain=forward src-address=$srcIP action=drop;` - add new firewall rule to drop connections 
* `:log info "New rule to block traffic to $srcIP has been added";` - add log entry
* `/ip firewall connection remove [find where src-address~$srcIP];` - kill all existing sessions
* `:log info "All active session for $srcIP" address have been removed;` - add log entry

### Enable connection script
Create another script like ths:
```
/system script add name=UnblockKidName1 source={
    :local srcIP "10.10.10.123";

    :local ruleID [/ip firewall filter find where chain="forward" src-address=$srcIP action="drop"];

    :if ([:len $ruleID] > 0) do={
        /ip firewall filter remove $ruleID;
        :log info "Blocking firewall rule has been removed for $srcIP";
    } else={
        :log warning "No blocking rules have been found for $srcIP";
    }
}
```
-- I hope this is self explanatory

### Testing
Run the scripts:
```sh
/system/script/run BlockKidName1
``` 
to block the connection and the second one to unlock it. Use ping the child's computer to see how it works.

### Add new user and create API token
In "System/Users" - create new user and add him to new group with "api" only permission. In "IP/Services" enable "api" on "8278" port (not tried SSL - sorry). 

## Home Assistant
Add "Mikrotik" integration from HACS repo (not the official one - it won't work for us).
> Remember to mark "Script switches" option on second page during configuration
{: .prompt-warning }
When finished - you can call service "button.mikrotik_script_BlockKidNmae1" and so on. Personally - I have created new horizontal stack in my "Mushroom" dashboard with two buttons per kid. There - I have created two buttons: "Block" and "Unblock" with the kid's PC name to identify the system. There - I have added "toggle" action to call "mikrotik_script_BlockKidName1" script and second to unlock it. 

## Android
On my phone - I use the "Home Assistant" mobile app. There - you can run the app and find an interesting button. I wanted to do it easier and faster: add new widget to the screen from "Widgets" and configure it as follows:

Action: button press
Entity: mikrotik_script_BlockKidName1

-- configure other options as needed.
Add another button to call "mikrotik_script_UnBlockKidName1" script and the setup is complete.
